Alone will come back to the course on blotching.
And today we're talking about hardware.
We're going to dive into the world of different types of mining hardware that miners use to solve the
cryptographic hash puzzle.
And specifically we'll talk about CBS News and A-6.
All right let's get started.
So C-p you all heard the term central processing units.
That's the main microchip inside our laptops or computers that's where everything goes through all the
commands go through and that's where they get executed.
It's like the center of operations for our computer.
And as you can imagine as the center of operations it has to be very versatile because it has to take
charge of lots of different things and therefore it's very general in its nature is very powerful.
It can do very sophisticated things.
So but at the same time it's in general so meaning it's not specialized to one specific thing and therefore
it can definitely solve the shudder 156 Hashid can calculate it can calculate it compared to a human.
Very fast.
But it is limited at about 10 mega hashes per second.
So 10 million hashes per second which in human terms it sounds like a lot but in terms of the overall
high rate of the bid Gwynedd work just taking just the kinetic work for instance.
That is not that much because the hasher rate there is like 22 million trillion hushes per second.
So then we move on to more specialized components into the world of more specialized devices.
And the first one is HGP the graphics processing unit.
That's the basic unit that is the video card in our graphics card in our laptops or computers.
And why is it specialized.
Well let's first put this here.
It is specialized and why is this special is because it is designed to work with graphics and operations
that is specialized for our matrix operations.
So matrix operations are those are required in order for videos to work for graphics to appear on our
screens and so on.
And that is what the graphics of the GP is specifically tailored for to solve matrix operations major
Perrault's patients and now the matrix operations and that specific zation is already a benefit for
their hash calculation as well.
So with that specialization the GP who is able to solve hash is OK the hash is faster because the way
to think about it is compared to the you it doesn't have lots of other components or functionalities
that the CBO has.
But because of that it is more efficient.
So it can do as many things as the Sibiu but because it because it has less components it's also more
efficient at things that it can do and therefore the speed here is up to one DIGA hash per second which
is 1 billion hashes per second.
And then in 2014 something incredible happened.
The first A-6 device was shipped to a consumer in January 2014 and that changed the world of bitcoin
mining forever.
Successful application specified specific integrated circuit and these devices are totally and utterly
specialized for one thing and one thing only and that is to calculate the Sharda 156 hash.
And so the way it works will have a look at an example just now but the way it works is that that integrated
circuit of this device is designed in such a way that the device doesn't have to perform any operations
like put this bit here.
And these two bits divide this by this and so on like the ECB or the GPO the async device just relies
exclusively on its circuit to perform that perform that calculation so as electricity runs through the
device just because of the architecture of the device the calculation is performed.
All that kind of physical level rather than on a logical level and therefore asix can achieve incredible
speeds over 1000 giga hashes per second.
So over one trillion one trillion hashes per second.
So there we go.
That's the three main types.
The differences as you can see they get more specialized as we go down this letter.
And while we're on the slide I just wanted to mention one more thing.
There's this type of mining called Cloud mining and that is when miners rent equipment of premises somewhere
far away and they pay a fee in order for that group and to participate participate in mining on their
behalf and therefore.
So they are just paying a fee in order to use someone else's basically equipment that is life like a
big server room or something like that.
Kind of like cloud computing or cloud storage.
That's also a type of mining.
Miners can engage in.
So there we go those are our types of different mining you GP you a sick cloud mining and here we have
an example of an async integrated circuit.
Just wanted to show you what it is like.
I'm not an expert in electrical engineering whatsoever.
But in this circuit in itself is designed in a way to calculate the shot 256 hash.
So basically as the electricity is running I'm not sure if it's going this way or that way but as electricity
is running through the circuit the calculations are being performed just by the structure by the way
the electricity goes through the circuit rather than as in a you or or a GP you have to be psychological
operations with bits and bytes and things like that.
Here it just goes like input it just runs through it.
Output done at the same time it's important to note that.
So first of all what you can see is that A-6 completely blue blow.
So it's you abuse or abuse or abuse out of the water is exploding abuse of the water.
So there's no point in using LGB you if somebody is using an AC at the same time it's important to note
that A-6 can only be used for certain groups of currencies such as Bitcoin.
You can use A-6 for Bitcoin because Bitcoin uses the Shatru 1:56 ASH and they are most A-6 are specifically
designed for that.
Whereas for example the theory we use is that if hash we haven't spoken about this but there is a different
type of hash called the hash their own version of hash which is a memory heavy which is memory dependent
and the term for it meaning that it requires access memory in order to pool soup's upside or random
numbers from there to calculate the hash.
So the async won't be the speed of basic won't be beneficial because you have to access the memory anyway
so your speed of calculating hash will be limited by your access to memory speed and therefore you might
to say that is theory is designed to withstand A-6 so that people cannot bring asix and start mining
a theorem of it and therefore A-6 can be used on Bitcoin and other cryptocurrency these shots on refugees
hash.
Or you could design A-6 for other types of hash like you could create different type of A-6 for a different
type of action or use them there.
But you cannot create an ASAC or so far nobody's been successful in creating async type solution for
them because it's very heavy so in theory you can still use use because there are no A-6 to outperform
that Yippies.
So that's something important to note and so let's move onto some examples though.
Cheryl let's first go to the search so I had to do a search for Gippi you mining rig and you'll see
some examples so here you go to six.
You got six graphics processing unit six graphics cards basically sound thousands.
And here you got.
Not sure what that is.
So you know like the price always depends of course on the highest rates and things like that.
And so this one was that whereas the one this one
so shark I had to look at your shark is operating system as that cache theory am bitcoin mining and
so on.
You know like you can see the hash race here.
So question like no knowing what we know now from the tutorial and trivia.
Why do they have Bitcoin here.
Why would they say Bitcoin if it's a B you might.
We know that G-B use are completely outdated for Bitcoin there's async devices there's no point.
So if you just search for Bitcoin on this page is that Quantrell f bit coin.
You will see that there is nowhere to be seen on the end like or is
can be exchanged to bitcoin.
See that's their claim.
But if you look at the compatible currencies Bitcoin isn't actually here.
This is just a marketing thing is false advertising that they're saying Bitcoin here just trying to
get people who don't understand these things that you cannot mine Bitcoin have GP use anymore because
as they said to us it just clicked here or maybe people are searching Google or ebay for my.
So you know it's a way for them to get their product on on the on people on the front page or on people's
eyes.
But in reality this is good for only certain things.
Therian saccharine is a classic and so on so in theory I'm here so you can see that cash I like assuming
that that is linked to that is the OEM thing that that's about right.
Two hundred mega hashes per second for six to be used as of right.
The fasters just be you ruthenium mining.
If we have a look here there are about Bassui.
So this is just an article on croupe toys r us.
So the first ones here you can see 31 32 25.
So they were go so 610 studios about 180 mega hashes per second this fastest one ever is like 41 mega
hashes.
Again another important thing to note is you cannot compare what this shows is you cannot compare the
hash rate between two different Crypta currencies because in theory you know its one type of hash in
Zed cash is another type of.
So one might be easier to solve one might be harder to solve.
So therefore the rates will be different so only compare high rates if you are talking about the same
crypto currency so if you took them out this Syria then you can compare two different devices on how
much hasher.
If you're talking about two different currencies it's not a good idea because it's going to be misleading
results.
And what I like about that example is also that as you can see we're diving into the world of these
hardware of these devices we're learning more about cryptocurrency themselves.
We're learning that theory is different to Bitcoin in the sense that it is a different type of hash
that uses it as is hash versus Bitcoin which uses shut channel 56 We're also learning that you cannot
compare different hasher is from different systems so for instance if I show you here the high rates
of Mirriam you will see right away that like you you can see that that's how many hashes have shared
Guga hashes per second.
Two hundred fifty thousand giga hashes per second versus the Bitcoin 22 million trillion dollars per
second.
But now we know we can actually compare the two side by side.
So it doesn't really say much to us in that sense.
Like these guys are hashing one type or solving one type of hash the ones in Bitcoin are solving a different
type of hash.
So what you could look at is the growth in the percentage growth in the rate you know and compare that
side by side because that's like you know it's just a percentage.
How much did the high rate grow in the past month or in the past year and that will tell us how fast
the network is growing how many more players are joining or how quickly the computing power or the computing
power is growing.
How popular a network is by comparing just the right to the right.
That's that's a no no.
OK.
So those are our GP use and this we want to A-6.
So what does an async look like.
Do do do do look at that ha.
When I saw this for the first time I was so shocked like this little use beefsteak 333 mega hash is
per second.
I get it you can't really compare we can compare to what we had there.
But like if you don't know that then like you compared to this we have 60 years but nevertheless even
if you take even if you take like a an old type of GP you that was used to solve the hash puzzle on
what's it called on Bitcoin.
This like this is insane 333 mega hashes and we said that the GP would only go up to like one Gieger
hash one Google hash.
And this is like 330 Meghan's with a tiny stick on Bitcoin.
And so that that's as crazy.
And that's what A-6 devices did to the world of block change or blotching that use shot 256.
And then you could see the bigger one.
So this is just like some toy type of things that are real but they're good for playing around getting
to know things that are quite small.
There's one in Lucas Moira's be 1.60 second but so I'm actually here you can see the integrated circuit
right.
So you can see that there it is.
That's that's the culprit.
That's where the electricity goes in and out.
Bam done.
And everything is solved.
Couple of what is it called 300 million times per second.
Insane but.
So these are the bigger A-6.
These are the ones that you see like in the industrial level type of minds you know racked up together
and racks and so important to note those are not if it's a bitcoin mine there's are not to be used.
Those are A-6 as.
So there is if you use the 1000 giga hash or this one goes up to like this is mega hash this is what
Google has just 1000 gewgaw hash 1000 times faster than that and they leave the water cooling and make
it all noise make a lot of heat.
Yeah.
And so those are asix here.
You can see them here and based best basic devices.
So here we go another article from tech creator.
So there you can see like what me and mine are asinine would you get thirteen point five thousand Keiga
hashes thirteen point five trillion trillion.
So Tara hushes trillion is per second.
Yep you can then you know cut power usage is also presents you need to calculate that and so on.
So there we go.
Those are.
That's what they look like.
So hopefully seeing what that looks like will help better also understand you know just memorize what
they are.
And finally for today's additional reading I've got an interesting article I found this interesting
it's on J.
Pradeep dot com.
And again we'll link this in the course notes.
This one is about theorems memory Hardwick's hardness explained and the road to mining with custom hardware.
It's quite a hardware or technical article.
A little bit long but it explains quite well what's why the theory is a called a memory hard or memory
bounds type of hash that it actually has to access.
And as to access memory to ignore the Dagh file in order to pull out the pages in order to calculate
its hash and that's why that's where the bandwidth is limited.
So if you want to learn more about that's about the theory hash rate which is hash.
Then check out this article.
And yeah on that note I hope you enjoy this tutorial and the dive into the world of hardware of Bitcoin
and other cryptocurrency mining.
And I look forward to seeing you next time.
Until then enjoy lotions.